Welcome back and in this lesson we're going to show you how you can set classes to various elements.
So this is going to be different than just applying the styling because this gives us the ability to
set an entire class to an element.
So if I've got something like box and I've got my background color here and lets out a background color
and also I have y font size.
So this one.
Let's make this one point five.
So it's really going to be big and we'll do color or color will be white.
So you get the idea that there's a number of different options that we can set up here and we can have
a number of different classes so we can do another one where maybe this one can be Box number two.
So this can be Box number one box number two.
And we're going to apply these styles these various styles various classes to the elements.
So let's do this one red and this one will be really really small.
And let's update the font color to be something like this.
So there we go.
We've got two different options and now we need some HVM elements so let's create some divs and we're
just going to give it an ID.
So we'll call this one one
and duplicate this will in some text in here.
Baulks one and we'll duplicate it.
So have box too.
So this one will be too.
We can do any number of boxes as well.
So box two and let's do one more.
So we've had three boxes that we can apply this to.
So Box number three.
So let's go and save that.
So now another thing that we should do is we need to apply some styling.
So one two and three.
So let's do with 100 picks.
Height of 100 picks and we'll do a display so display and we'll do inline block again.
So let's see what this looks like.
Go back out and we should also put a border around so we can actually distinguish between the boxes.
So it's out in that border.
So go back out and refresh it again.
So there we go.
So we've got our three boxes and we're all ready to go to apply and move some of these classes around.
So the challenge is now is to make these boxes clickable.
And then what we're going to do within when the box actually gets clicked then we're going to apply
one of the styles to it so we can do a box one or a box too.
So go ahead and make these boxes clickable.
And of course we've looked at a number of ways of making those selections.
So it's up to you whatever you want to do to make these boxes selectable and update your code so that
you can click these.
And then that will prepare us to be able apply the styling to those boxes as they get clicked and we're
going to apply the classes.
We're not going to do any styling that we're going to be applying.
So go ahead and set that up within your source code and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So I want what I want it to do is I want to set these up and I'm going to make these clickable.
So they're going to be clickable boxes and we need to apply a class to it.
So we're going to call it just my class and I'm going to copy and paste this out as I only to use the
class in order to select these elements in case I expand my age to male and add even more divs or if
I'm doing anything else.
So it's always a good idea to make it flexible enough and that's why I usually like to use classes.
So let's grab all of those elements.
So we're going to do well and we're going to grab them so document.
And again how you grab them is up to you so you can do get element bought by id class name if you want.
So I'm going to do Querrey select are all so very select are all.
And within here I just need to specify that brand new class that I added in so that way I can grab all
of those elements and the objective was to make all of these clickable.
And we would take some type of action when we clicked the button.
So for this we need to set up a for loop.
So let's set up our for loop and this is something that we've done many times before.
So while the length of hell is while X is less than the length of L and let's increment X so that we
can create our proper loop.
So we're just going to loop through all the available elements and then we're going to add in that click
event.
So that's And we're going to do on click and when it's on clicked then we're going to fire off a function.
This is an anonymous function that's going to set within this click event.
And what we want to do is for now let's just add in
our ability to grab those elements.
So there's a number of ways we can do this.
We can do event target because we automatically get an event being passed or we can select this.
So basically what this does is it can console log that out.
And so now whenever it gets clicked this and we've looked at this before as well.
So we see that when we click it we're picking up the element that fired this off so we're able to be
really specific and select that particular element and make some type of action.
So now we've got all of these elements they're clickable and now the next step is in order to do something
with this let's apply some classes to it.
So basically when this actually gets clicked I want to set a class so let's do
and for here we can use this.
So let's do this.
So we're grabbing that object that's been clicked and what's do class list.
So this is the number of classes.
So this is well this is an array of different classes that are currently on this element and we have
the ability to actually toggle a specific class.
That's what we want to do.
We want to toggle a class and we want to toggle the class box one.
So basically what's going to happen here when it gets clicked it's going to add that class when it gets
clicked again.
It's going to remove that class.
So we see that we've got the ability to add and remove classes in their entirety from various elements
that we've got within our page.
So let's open up the console and we're going to also see what's available to us.
So we've got the object L So let's grab one of the elements within that object.
So we've got all one and let's output and see what the class list is that's available within this.
So we've got class list
and we see that currently.
This one has two classes.
So it's got my class and Box 1 and so all we're doing is that we're toggling that available class list.
So we see that we've got a number of different options here as well.
So we can check to see if it contains a class.
So if we want to see if Box 1 is in there we can do this or we could do Box 1 and we can see that this
is true.
And if we did something like Box 2 then we can see that that is false.
So this actually provides us a number of built in methods that are already available within that class
list.
We're able to actually loop through all the different ones we can do for each.
So that's built in we've got a length we can remove out a class and we can add a class to it.
So if we wanted to add a class we can do odd
and this time let's add another class to that.
So do box too.
Adding it to it.
So now we see that we're able to add blocks to this one.
So now if we do again the class list and we list all of the classes that are available there we've got
my class box one box two.
And if we want to remove one we can do remove and selecting that box one.
So I want to completely remove that one from the class list so removing it and going back and listing
out the class list again we see that now we've effectively been able to move it from box to.
So for this upcoming challenge what I want you to do is have one class of active so the active class
needs to be the one and we're going to set a background color to that one.
So this one is going to have a background color of yellow So this is going to really stand out.
So I want you to do is add active but I also want to remove it from the other boxes so we can add active
and remove it from the other boxes.
So take a minute and a pause the video and then try it for yourself.
And remember what we're doing is we're using the remove and the ad and we're removing it active and
we're adding active to the current one that's selected.
So we're not toggling it anymore.
We're just adding it and removing it.
So pause the video and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up so we can use the on click as well so we don't have to make any changes to there so I'm going
to comment out that toggle option.
And we're going to we're going to get rid of the cons. this.
So what we want to do is we want to add active to it and we want to remove active from the remaining
boxes.
So let's create a function and this function what this one will do.
This will allow us to set and remove classes.
So let's set this one up where or call it up update class and this will give us the ability to update
classes on a number of elements.
So we want to actually pass that element value in.
So depending on which element it is and if we've got it within e l so we can use that as well.
So I just call that element.
So just use E for short.
So this is the element.
And next we want to have a class name so we can easily remove all of the classes we can loop through
it and run one function and remove out all of the active classes.
So it's pass the class name as C..
And then lastly what we want to do.
So either we want to remove it or add it to all of the boxes.
So let's call this one a for action.
So next let's loop through the values that get passed within this function.
So we've got variable x starting at zero and we know that we're passing through the array object under
the variable so that the length
and now we just need to increment x.
So now let's loop through this.
So we've got all of these variables here.
So we're passing through E and we're grabbing the current one so that when we e x and let's do class
list.
So we're getting all of that class list object information.
And next we need to pass and what we want to do.
So this is our action that we want to take and then next we need to pass in and utilize the class.
So the class was C so this was the class name that we want to add or remove.
So let's try this function out.
And first of all let's add an octave on one of these elements.
So set this one to be active by default.
And what I want to do is I want to when we come in here I want to add octave to the one that was clicked
but I want to remove it from the rest of them.
So let's do a condition here and we're going to check to see if this particular value already contains
the value active and if it does then we'll just leave it as is.
So let's see this class list so use the class list object.
And what we saw before in the console where we've got contains active and if it's already there then
we don't need to do anything else here that we know that if this is true then we can leave it.
And if it's not true then we know we need to add active.
So let's do a negative there.
And basically now we know that we need to add that class to it.
So let's update this one and we're going to add the class to it.
So using this class list we wanted to add the class.
And then what class we wanted to add.
So just like we had done earlier in the console.
So we need to do the rounded brackets and then within here we can specify what we want to add and we
want to add in the class of active.
So this is only if it already doesn't exist.
We can't add that in.
Otherwise we want to remove it and just in case we've got it sitting in any of the other ones we want
to simply remove it from all the other functions.
So let's go back and try to save it and refresh it.
So now when I click on them they're all becoming active.
So what I ultimately want to do whenever the click gets initiated I want to remove the active from all
of them.
Now I know that where we're already checking to see here if it's already active so I'm going to leave
that in place but I want to run through this function where we've just created and this one will allow
us to actually remove out that element.
So we know we've got the elements within E-L object and the class that we want to remove.
So we're going to pass those in.
So the class that we want to remove is going to be active.
So let's add that in here.
And lastly the action that we want to take we want to remove.
So let's try that eight's go back and refresh it.
So now whenever I click I'm actually able to toggle between the few between them.
And also let's try out our function now within our console
and this is the nice thing when you set up functions that you can actually make use of them within your
console.
So let's do all and we're going to add let's do something different.
Let's box 1 and let's add box 1 to all the elements.
So it's as easy as that to add baulks one class to all of them.
So now if I go into any one of them I can see that it's been added and if I want to remove them out
I can just pass within this function and I can remove them all out and bring them back to the default.
So that's all we're doing over here.
We're simply removing them and we're adding them and so trying it out for yourself and also try building
out some functions that provide you some added benefits and then try those functions within your console.
So the next lesson we're going to be looking at this and I'm going to show you how what we can take
what we've learned within this lesson and build an accordion so an accordion basically you can click
on a heading and it opens up content underneath and I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up.